[Serve] [Docs] Create end-to-end documentation example for Serve REST API and CLI (#25936)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/production.md

The message `Sent deploy request successfully!` means:
* The Ray cluster has received your config file successfully.
* It will start a new Serve application if one hasn't already started.
* The Serve application will deploy the deployments from your deployment graph, updated with the configurations from your config file.

It does **not** mean that your Serve application, including your deployments, has already started running successfully. This happens asynchronously as the Ray cluster attempts to update itself to match the settings from your config file. Check out the [next section](serve-in-production-monitoring) to learn more about how to monitor your deployments.

### Adding a Runtime Environment

If you start Ray and deploy your deployment graph from a directory that doesn't contain the graph code, your deployments will fail to run. This happens because your import path is generally location-dependent. For example, the import path `fruit.deployment_graph` assumes the current directory contains the `fruit.py` module, which contains a `deployment_graph` object.

> To make your config file location-independent, you can push your deployment graph code to a remote repository and add that repository to your config file's `runtime_env` field. When Serve runs your deployment graph, it will pull the code from the remote repository rather than use a local copy. **This is a best practice** because it lets you deploy your config file from any machine in any directory and share the file with other developers, making it a more standalone artifact.

Author: Do you know how to link RST documentation in Markdown? The runtime_env documentation is still in RST. I tried using `eval-rst`:

```
```{eval-rst}:ref:`remote repository and add that repository to your config file's ``runtime_env`` field <handling_dependencies>````
```

but it didn't format it:

<img width="751" alt="Screen Shot 2022-06-24 at 12 04 34 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/92341594/175649087-79f880e2-b0e5-430a-98f3-79c02864db26.png">

> To make your config file location-independent, you can push your deployment graph code to a remote repository and add that repository to your config file's `runtime_env` field. When Serve runs your deployment graph, it will pull the code from the remote repository rather than use a local copy. **This is a best practice** because it lets you deploy your config file from any machine in any directory and share the file with other developers, making it a more standalone artifact.

Reviewer: the xref will _just work_

> To make your config file location-independent, you can push your deployment graph code to a remote repository and add that repository to your config file's `runtime_env` field. When Serve runs your deployment graph, it will pull the code from the remote repository rather than use a local copy. **This is a best practice** because it lets you deploy your config file from any machine in any directory and share the file with other developers, making it a more standalone artifact.

Author: Sweet! I added a link, and it looks like it's working.

* You explicitly set it using the `--dashboard-port` argument when running `ray start`.
* Port 8265 was unavailable when Ray started. In that case, the dashboard port is incremented until an available port is found. E.g. if 8265 is unavailable, the port becomes 8266. If that's unavailable, it becomes 8267, and so on.

:::{tip}
By default, all the Serve CLI commands assume that you're working with a local cluster, so if you don't specify an `--address/-a` value, they use the Ray address associated with a local cluster started by `ray start --head`. However, if the `RAY_ADDRESS` environment variable is set, all Serve CLI commands will default to that value instead (unless you also specify an `--address/-a` value).

You can check this variable's value by running:

```console
$ echo $RAY_ADDRESS
```

You can set this variable by running the CLI command:

```console
$ export RAY_ADDRESS=[YOUR VALUE]
```

You can unset this variable by running the CLI command:

```console
$ unset RAY_ADDRESS
```

Check for this variable in your environment to make sure you're using your desired Ray address.
:::

(serve-in-production-monitoring)=

> ## Monitoring Your Serve Application in Production with `serve config` and `serve status`

Author: Good suggestions, I changed it to "inspect."

(serve-in-production)=

# Putting Ray Serve Deployment Graphs in Production

This section should help you:

> - test your Serve deployment graph

Reviewer: test your Serve deployment graph locally?

> - create a Serve config file

Reviewer: understand Serve configuration yaml format?

Author: I changed it to "understand the Serve config file format"

> - deploy, monitor, and update your Serve deployment graph in production

Reviewer: should we say Serve application instead?

```{contents}
```

(serve-in-production-testing)=

> ## Testing Your Serve Deployment Graph

Reviewer: ah for serve run then we should say "develop and test"

> You can test your Serve deployment graph using the Serve CLI's `serve run` command. The `serve run` command launches a temporary Ray cluster, deploys the graph to it, and blocks. Then, you can open a new terminal window and issue requests to your graph using the Python interpreter. When your graph receives and processes these requests, it will output `print` and `logging` statements to the terminal. Once you're finished testing your graph, you can type `ctrl-C` to kill the temporary Ray cluster and tear down your graph. You can use this pattern to quickly run, debug, and iterate on your Serve deployment graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test your Serve deployment graph using the Serve CLI's `serve run` command. The `serve run` command launches a temporary Ray cluster, deploys the graph to it, and blocks. Then, you can use whatever tools you like to send HTTP requests to test your application. When your graph receives and processes these requests, it will output `print` and `logging` statements to the terminal. Once you're finished testing your graph, you can type `ctrl-C` to kill the temporary Ray cluster and tear down your graph. You can use this pattern to quickly run, debug, and iterate on your Serve deployment graph.
```

Let's use this graph as an example:

```python

> # File name: fruit.py

Reviewer: use literalinclude and put these in doc_code and make sure they are tested please!

Author: Got it– I used `literalinclude` and I added tests for the code.

        self.price = config.get("price", self.DEFAULT_PRICE)
    
    def check_price(self, amount: float) -> float:
        return self.price * amount

@serve.deployment(user_config={"price": 2})
class OrangeStand:

    DEFAULT_PRICE = 0.5

    def __init__(self):
        # This default price is overwritten by the one specified in the
        # user_config through the reconfigure() method.
        self.price = self.DEFAULT_PRICE
    
    def reconfigure(self, config: Dict):
        self.price = config.get("price", self.DEFAULT_PRICE)
    
    def check_price(self, amount: float) -> float:
        return self.price * amount

@serve.deployment(user_config={"price": 4})
class PearStand:

    DEFAULT_PRICE = 0.75

    def __init__(self):
        # This default price is overwritten by the one specified in the
        # user_config through the reconfigure() method.
        self.price = self.DEFAULT_PRICE
    
    def reconfigure(self, config: Dict):
        self.price = config.get("price", self.DEFAULT_PRICE)
    
    def check_price(self, amount: float) -> float:
        return self.price * amount

async def json_resolver(request: Request) -> List:

>     return await request.json()

Reviewer: you can import this from serve.http_adapters

Author: Ah good catch– I imported it.

    - name: FruitMarket
      num_replicas: 2

    - name: MangoStand
      user_config:
        price: 3
    
    - name: OrangeStand
      user_config:
        price: 2
    
    - name: PearStand
      user_config:
        price: 4
    
    - name: DAGDriver
```

The file uses the same `fruit.deployment_graph` import path, and it has five entries in the `deployments` list– one for each deployment. All the entries contain a `name` setting (the only required setting when including an entry) as well as additional settings (such as `num_replicas` or `user_config`) depending on the deployment.

Note how this config specifies the same settings as the `@serve.deployment` decorators from the deployment graph's code. We can change or add to these settings to override the settings from the decorators.

:::{tip}
Each individual entry in the `deployments` list is optional. In the example config file above, we could omit the `PearStand`, including its `name` and `user_config`, and the file would still be valid. When we deploy the file, the `PearStand` deployment will still be deployed, using the configurations set in the `@serve.deployment` decorator from the deployment graph's code.
:::

> We can also auto-generate this config file. The `serve build` command takes an import path to your deployment graph, and it creates a config file containing all the deployments and their settings from the graph. This file will also include all the default values set by Serve itself, so you can see exactly what configurations apply to your deployments. You can tweak these settings to manage you deployments in production.

Reviewer: > it creates a config file containing all the deployments and their settings from the graph. This file will also include all the default values set by Serve itself,

I don't think we fully aligned on this yet and we should not document about this right now. Personally, I think we should not expose all the settings fields.

Author: Got it– I removed the sentence about the default values, but I left the rest of the paragraph in place. The description should be valid regardless of the direction we go in.

class ExampleDeployment:
    ...
```

and the following config file:

```yaml
...

deployments:

    - name: ExampleDeployment
      num_replicas: 5

...
```

Serve will set `num_replicas=5`, using the config file value, and `max_concurrent_queries=15`, using the code value (since `max_concurrent_queries` wasn't specified in the config file). All other deployment settings use Serve defaults since the user didn't specify them in the code or the config.

:::{tip}
Remember that `ray_actor_options` is an independent setting. The entire `ray_actor_options` dictionary in the config file overrides the entire `ray_actor_options` dictionary from the graph code. If there are individual options within `ray_actor_options` (e.g. `runtime_env`, `num_gpus`, `memory`) that are set in the code but not in the config, Serve still won't use the code settings if the config has a `ray_actor_options` dictionary. It will treat these missing options as though the user never set them (and use defaults instead) since the entire `ray_actor_options` dictionary in the config overrides the one in the code. This dictionary overriding behavior also applies to `user_config`.
:::

(serve-in-production-deploying)=

> ## Deploying Your Serve Application to Production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploying Your Serve Application to Production with `serve deploy`
```

```

:::{note}
As a side note, you could also package your deployment graph into a standalone Python package that can be imported using a [PYTHONPATH](https://docs.python.org/3.10/using/cmdline.html#envvar-PYTHONPATH) to provide location independence on your local machine. However, it's still best practice to use a `runtime_env`, to ensure consistency across all machines in your cluster.
:::

(serve-in-production-remote-cluster)=

### Using a Remote Cluster

By default, `serve deploy` deploys to a cluster running locally. However, you should also use `serve deploy` whenever you want to deploy your Serve application to a remote cluster. `serve deploy` takes in an optional `--address/-a` argument where you can specify the dashboard address of your remote Ray cluster. This address should be of the form:

```
[YOUR_RAY_CLUSTER_URI]:[DASHBOARD PORT]
```

As an example, the address for the local cluster started by `ray start --head` is `http://127.0.0.1:8265`. We can explicitly deploy to this address using the command

```console
$ serve deploy config_file.yaml -a http://127.0.0.1:8265
```

> **Note that there is no slash at the end of the address.**

Author: Yes, we can drop the trailing slash if it's added. I made an issue to track this [here](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/25969), and I removed the note from the documentation.

* `status`: a Serve deployment has three possible statuses:
    * `"UPDATING"`: the deployment is updating to meet the goal state set by a previous `deploy` request.
    * `"HEALTHY"`: the deployment is at the latest requests goal state.
    * `"UNHEALTHY"`: the deployment has either failed to update, or it has updated and has become unhealthy afterwards. This may be due to an error in the deployment's constructor, a crashed replica, or a general system or machine error.
* `message`: provides context on the current status.

You can use the `serve status` command to monitor your deployments after they are deployed and throughout their lifetime.

Using the `fruit_config.yaml` example from [an earlier section](fruit-config-yaml):

```console
$ ray start --head
$ serve deploy fruit_config.yaml
...

$ serve status
app_status:
  status: RUNNING
  message: ''
  deployment_timestamp: 1655771534.835145
deployment_statuses:
- name: MangoStand
  status: HEALTHY
  message: ''
- name: OrangeStand
  status: HEALTHY
  message: ''
- name: PearStand
  status: HEALTHY
  message: ''
- name: FruitMarket
  status: HEALTHY
  message: ''
- name: DAGDriver
  status: HEALTHY
  message: ''
```

> 

Author: Sounds good, I added a note.
